Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and
fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Daryl Lane and Bill Vernon. Today we're beginning a three-part series on
science fiction author Lee Killow. Killow is a Kansas native who wrote several
short stories during the 1970s, then produced four novels in short order in the
1980s. She began as a writer of hard science fiction, but here we find out how
she converted to the more character-oriented variety. I started out, and my
interest was mostly in really hard science fiction. I was a die-hard analog
reader. And the first story I ever sold was to analog, and it was an analog kind
of story. I haven't sold a story to analog since. Almost everything I've written
since has come out in, the majority of it has come out in fantasy and science
fiction. I've had one in Galileo and a couple in If magazine before it folded.
But I got more and more interested in people and realizing that hardware wasn't
the thing, that it was people, and that people were interesting and what made
them tick. And so the more I started researching that, the more I got interested
in what makes society to click. And then when I started making up aliens and I
started reading a lot of anthropology to figure out really how societies go
together, the more I read, the more I researched, the more fascinated I got.
Killow goes to great lengths to keep the details of her books consistent. Listen
as she explains how she is able to keep track of the minutiae. I put together a
background book before I ever start the novel itself. It's an amount of work
that I know some people find exhausting.
They couldn't do it and still have any energy left to write the book. But I
enjoy it. I'm very systematic. I start out with a lot of visual images in my
head. And with vague visual images, you have to have them developed to a very
clear, you have to develop a very clear image, and you have to find the words
for them and get them translated into actual words out of pictures before you
can get them down on paper. So I do a background book, and I do maps of the
planet, and I do drawings of the flora and fauna and biographies of the people.
And the more I read on climatology and planetology, the more complex backgrounds
get. It takes me about the same amount of time to put a background together, but
it gets much more complicated. Now they're almost as thick as the final
manuscript on the book. Writers have many reasons for plying their trade. Killow
has an interesting point of view on the role and rewards of writers, including
herself. A writer is entertaining. And if he thinks that he's creating deathless
prose with every line he struggles to put down, and if he's writing for history,
then he's probably got pretensions of grandeur. If I write a book that people
buy and read by buying, they give me my money, which I need, and if they enjoy
it by reading it, then I'm really happy. I don't think I would write a book just
for money, but certainly I want to write something that is fun for me to write,
and I want to write something that is fun for readers to read. Killow's work
seldom end with all's well and they lived happily ever after. She believes that
life is fraught with problems. There are a lot of large social problems that
exist within each book that never get solved, but people in the books solve
their own problems. They handle their own lives. And I think maybe that, a
little bit of personal philosophy of mine, comes through that I can't solve the
world's problems, but I can certainly keep control of my own life. And my belief
in that I can pass on. Join us tomorrow as we look at a few of Lee Killow's
novels.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin
Science Fiction Association, produced in conjunction with Odessa College in
Odessa, Texas.
This has been
the Science Fiction Radio Show.
Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and
fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Bill Vernon. And Daryl Lane. Today we will continue our discussion of
science fiction author Lee Killow. Perhaps our best-received novel to date is
The Doppelganger Gambit, a futuristic police procedure mystery novel. A good
deal of the book's appeal lies in its skillful depiction of the interaction
between police officers. We asked Killow if she got this from first-hand
experience. I haven't had any practical experience in it. I did have a police
officer come up to me at a science fiction convention once when I'd been reading
a chapter of Doppelganger, and he asked me when I worked in law enforcement.
Once I decided I wanted to write a mystery science fiction, I went ahead and did
more research, and I've kept into it. And of course, that book itself and others
have brought me into contact with more police officers, and they've passed on a
lot of material to me. And so, short of actually working in it myself, I have
gotten very familiar with it. And I suppose I keep reading about it, or writing
about it, because it was interesting, and because I've all done so much research
on it that it's a shame not to use the material. Killow's slang term for a
police person in The Doppelganger Gambit is Leo. We asked her to explain the
origin of this expression. I would think I was seeing something about law
enforcement officers one time, and I noticed that it made Leo, and I thought,
that's great, because it gave rise in my mind to all kinds of connotations, and
I could see police officers enjoying being called Leos because of the lion, the
fierce kind of association you get with it, and therefore calling police
stations lion dens. And someone who's likely to be picked up by the police is
lion meat. The memorable lead characters in The Doppelganger Gambit, both Leos,
are partnered throughout the book. They manage to transcend all sexual and
philosophical barriers ultimately to solve the case. Listen as Killow explains
how she came up with the characters of Jana Brill and Mama Maxwell. Somewhere in
the beginning, when I was putting the book together, which had started as a
novelette, and I knew it couldn't be a novelette because here I was 15 pages
into something and just barely starting it, I had decided I wanted to use a lady
cop. So for contrast,
I gave her a male partner, and I can't remember why I decided to make him black.
It was one of these things that just kind of happened. Somebody later pointed
out that I had my female character was the one that was working by the book and
procedure, and my male character was the one who was working on intuition, which
is an interesting reverse on the way people generally think of males and
females. And that just sort of happened. The characters sort of balanced one
another, but a lot of the balance was unconscious on my part. Jana Brill and
Mama Maxwell are a fascinating pair. We asked Killow if she plans to use them
again. They were fun characters, and I intend to work with them again. Killow
wrote another police procedure novel set in the same future history. This book
is called Deadly Silence, with a T. In this novel, Terran Leos are transported
to the planet Agar to function as peace officers. There, they must operate under
different rules. Their first duty is to aid the victims of crimes, rather than
to pursue the perpetrator. How did Killow come up with this role? I suppose it
reflects a little bit of a reaction to some of the things that I've seen in our
own culture, where the victim suffers a lot because everybody's so interested in
catching the guy who did it that a lot of times they're not paying too much
attention to the victim himself. In another twist, the Leos must function as
defense attorneys when the perpetrator is brought to trial. Tomorrow, more on
author Lee Killow.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin
Science Fiction Association, produced in conjunction with Odessa College in
Odessa, Texas. werden they
alerted their voi? 있어요
Norway Powerchain
Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and
fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Daryl Lane and Bill Vernon. The show today will deal further with the
work of science fiction author Lee Killough. Another novel by Killough goes by
the unlikely title The Monitor, The Miners, and The Shree. It differs from the
works we discussed previously in that it is set in another future history, one
called The Sodality. Listen as Killough talks about the origins and the
inhabitants of this universe. That's a future history that I was working on as a
teenager, which started out as very peaceful and wonderful and tended to get
much more complex and much more violent. The older I got, the more I realized
that people just didn't get along with each other all the time. I have several
short stories that are set in that particular universe. And I'll probably come
back to it again. It's an interesting one because it has a lot of different
groups, none of which are human, and offers possibilities for societies and
interplays. And aliens. See, the future history I have set up, the one that most
of the novels are in, has a minimal of aliens before we actually have all run
across one, which is spacing. And then, of course, there's aliens that are on
the planet on which the colonists
who are in trouble on the Invictus land, the book I'm working on at the moment,
has some aliens on it. But there's a minimal of aliens. And if I want to deal
with alien species, it's just really easy to go to that other future history,
which has all kinds of aliens running around. I like to think of it as just
being across, being on our same galaxy, it's just on the other side, you know,
way out of contact with us, probably not where we're likely to run into it very
soon. The plot of the Monitor the Miners and the Shree is centered about the
fact that representatives of the Department of Surveys and Charters are sent to
monitor the world Naira, a proscripted world, for any signs of progress among
primitive inhabitants, the Shree. The team discovers that a corporation by the
name of Imra has been actively mining the planet for 500 years, an action
strictly forbidden by the sodality. The last chapter of the novel is a courtroom
scene. We ask Killua if her husband, Pat, who happens to be a lawyer, offered
her any advice on its content. In fact, the lawyer half-wrote that particular
chapter. He was telling me, oh, this character ought to say that, and then you
ought to bring up this point, and then you ought to bring counter with that
legal point. And the whole chapter definitely got submitted to him for scrutiny
as procedure and logical thinking. So he's half the creator of that last
chapter. Recently, a book of Kelo's short stories appeared under the name
Aventine. This is a collection of loosely connected stories all set in the city
of Aventine, a cultural and fine arts center. The stories are told from a first
-person point of view. We asked Killua why she chose this approach. I like those
particular stories from a first-person point of view because you can understand
then, the storyteller is always victimized in some way in those particular
stories.
Besides writing, singing, drawing, dancing, and theater are artistic influences
in Kelo's background. It was this experience that helped inspire her to write
the Aventine stories. We asked her how the ideas developed. Most of those
stories came out of images. There'd be like one single image.
I like the image of a pair of footprints, scarlet and sand, going away. The
image just kept with me and kept with me until I found a story to go with it.
Lee Killua was a dedicated, conscientious writer from whom we can expect more
fine work.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin
Science Fiction Association, produced in conjunction with Odessa College in
Odessa, Texas. The Science
Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin Science Fiction
Association, of Odessa
College in Odessa, Texas. The Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the
Permian Basin Science Fiction Association, Coming up next is the Science Fiction
Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and
fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is David Carson. And Daryl Lane. Our show today is about science fiction
author Rudy Rucker. Rucker was trained as a mathematician. He burst onto the
science fiction scene in 1981 with one of the most original novels to appear in
years, White Light. But White Light was not the first novel Rucker authored.
Actually, the first book I wrote was Space Time Donuts. And that, I wrote, I
think it was in 70, I think it was in 77 when I wrote it.
And that, I wrote it right after seeing the Rolling Stones play live in Buffalo.
And I just, I just like really wanted to do something. And I wrote this. I wrote
it during the summer. I was teaching in New York.
And there, what I wanted to do with that book was make a strong anarchist
statement about the way I found it in society. It was, you know, like, basically
sort of the late 60s. Even though it was in the mid-70s. Rucker was unable to
sell Space Time Donuts immediately. Here he tells us the story behind his very
successful White Light. The way I came to write White Light was kind of weird. I
wrote Space Time Donuts and I couldn't sell that anywhere. And finally Unearthed
Magazine agreed to serialize it. And they serialized the first two parts of it.
And they went out of business. And at that point I lost my job when I was
teaching in upstate New York. They wouldn't give me 10 years of dance. It was
different. But then I got a grant to go to do mathematics in Germany. And I got
a grant from the German government. Went to Heilberg. Went there for, I had a
two-year, well, a two-year grant there. And it's from the Son Humboldt
Foundation. That's why some of my books are dedicated to Humboldt.
And I got over there. And to my delight, I discovered that the person in charge
of my research really didn't care about mathematics either. And so I just
started writing science fiction. And I spent about three months trying to solve
this problem, continuum problem. And I thought, you know, I knew a lot about it.
It's a very difficult problem. And then I said, well, I'm just going to write a
novel about it. And then I came to write White Light that way. Which, it's about
a different level of infinity. The packaging of an American edition of White
Light made it appear as though the book were another in a long line of life
-after-life books. We asked Rucker how this came about. Well, that was Jim Bain.
He was the editor at Ace at that time. And he bought it. I was happy that he
bought it. You know, he gave me good money. And it was just his marketing
decision. He probably thought, well, we can film more copies if we package it
as, you know, something for sort of superstitious, foolish people. Instead of
packaging it as avant-garde literature. And I imagine he's probably right. We
asked Rucker if he had any input on the packaging. Well, the one thing I got
them to put on the cover was, do you want to see God? I got them to put that on
the back. We asked Rucker how people who bought the book, thinking it was a
straight life-after-life novel, reacted to it. Well, I've met people since then
that are really into, like, dream stuff and astral travel. Like, they've read it
very seriously and they're just like, don't understand why the book is sort of
not so serious as it should be. More on Rudy Rucker on our next show.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin
Science Fiction Association, produced in conjunction with Odessa College in
Odessa, Texas.
The Science Fiction Radio Show,
a production of the Permian Basin Science Fiction Association,
coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and
fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Daryl Lane. And David Carson. Today's show continues a discussion on
science fiction author Rudy Rucker. When we asked Rucker if the name White Light
was inspired by the so-called White Light, those who have near-death experiences
reportedly see, the answer was a definite no. Here he explains the actual origin
of the title. White Light, that's like in the 60s when, if you took, like, a
whole lot of LSD, everything would get all white, you know, and then God would
talk to you. And that was like an experience that usually you would only get it
once because God, you'd look out for it at other times. That's very White Light.
Rucker's third novel, Software, is written in a more conventional style than
were White Light and Space Time Donuts. It differs from these two in another
aspect as well. The software I was trying something different because in a way
both Space Time Donuts and White Light are autobiographical. They're both
essentially the main, the hero that's me. And then I wanted to see if I could do
a book where I wasn't in it. And so in software, there's like a young guy who's
sort of, you know, based on a guy that I used to hang around with, a guy younger
than me. And the old guy in there is, to an extent, based on my father. In
software, a simulacrum of the famous mathematician Gertle makes a brief
appearance to lecture on Gertle's incompleteness theorem. This theorem says that
humans cannot build robots as intelligent as themselves. Rucker had several
discussions with Gertle shortly before Gertle died. Listen as he describes the
relationship. For me, he was like the ultimate guru that I ever met in my life.
And I just, you know, I was fortunate, you know, I got to see the master at that
formative stage in my life. And again, that tends to be a one-time thing. I
mean, at this point, he's dead. And, you know, when I'm an old man, maybe
somebody will come see me or something. But I don't expect to meet anybody like
that again. I think about Gertle, when you talk to him, when I talk to him, I go
to make up a list of questions I want to ask him about all this stuff. About
math and philosophy and physics and so on. And, like, he'd been sitting alone in
Princeton there, like, for 30 years. Like, 30 years ago, he had proved the
heaviest things that anybody had ever done in mathematics. He'd been, like, 30
years past that. He was, like, thinking all the time. And anything I'd ask him,
you know. Like, he'd already been all the way down the road. And he would just
laugh. I mean, a lot of when I would talk to him, he'd say a few words and then
he'd start laughing. And I'd start laughing with him. And, like, as we would
laugh, I would feel like we were communicating. It was, uh, I mean, it sounds
kind of stupid when I say it like this. But, uh, it was, you know, like a real
feeling of telepathy almost. Like, you know, anything I would say you would
totally understand. And it was just really, uh, unquestionably the greatest
person I've ever made. The German philosopher Hegel is Rucker's several times
-removed grandfather. We asked him if there is any of Hegel's influence in his
work. I think I've done my part, you know, for the absolute. It's, I really, I'd
like to read his stuff, and it's pretty hard to read. I've read books about him,
but the actual books are very hard to read. But it's my impression that I have,
uh, somewhat the same ideas about, uh, the absolute. Uh, the absolute being the
ultimate thing, the white life. And, uh, I would say, you know, like, later if
people look back, they'll say, well, gee, you know, it's pretty much what Hegel
would have wanted to write if he was a science fiction writer. Rudy Rucker, the
science fiction author who plans to continue doing his part for the absolute.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin
Science Fiction Association, produced in conjunction with Odessa College in
Odessa, Texas.
The Science Fiction Radio Show,
a production of the Permian Basin Science Fiction Association,